Closes #156 blog post admiral future package extensions (#171)
pharmaverse/blog: posts/2024-05-10_new_admiral_ex.../new_admiral_extension_packages_admiralpeds_coming_soon.qmd

---
title: "New {admiral} extension packages: {admiralpeds} & more coming soon!"
author:
  - name: Fanny Gautier
  - name: Lina Patil

> description: "{admiralpeds} & more announcements"

Reviewer: Can we have a slightly more verbose description please? Maybe a couple of sentences? Just thinking about the newsletter we send out - a slightly longer blurb would be helpful, thanks :)

Author: Could you please double check the updates ? thanks.

# feel free to change the image
image: "coming_soon.png"
---

<!--------------- typical setup ----------------->

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
long_slug <- "2024-05-10_new_admiral_ex..."
# renv::use(lockfile = "renv.lock")
```

<!--------------- post begins here ----------------->
📢[`admiralpeds 0.1`](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html) is __coming soon__ [on CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org) !

Pediatrics extension package for ADaM in R Asset Library `{admiral}` : its first release is planned by July 2024.

# Collaboration

7 companies (Roche, Pfizer, Amgen, BMS, J&J, Novartis, and Cytel) and David Freedman, a passionate consultant retired from CDC, are working together to create this extension 🤝.

# Purpose

The purpose of this new extension is to provide a complementary (to `{admiral}`) toolbox that enables users to develop specifics ADaMs datasets for pediatric clinical trials.
Initially the package will focus on child growth/development charts: [WHO and CDC growth charts](https://www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/who_charts.htm), among infants and children ages birth to 19 years included. 

# New Features

We are starting with 2 new functions : 

> * derive_params_growth_age()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `admiral::derive_params_growth_age()`
```

* derive_params_growth_height()

> The first function `derive_params_growth_age()` is based on the current age of the patients, while the second one `derive_params_growth_height()` depends on the height or length of the patients. The two functions are flexible enough to chose your own metadata which could be company dependent or the pre-defined ones based on WHO and CDC charts, and to chose the wanted parameters (e.g. "BMI", "HEIGHT", "WEIGHT", "HEAD CIRCUMFERENCE").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first function, `derive_params_growth_age()` is based on the current age of the patients, while the second one, `derive_params_growth_height()` depends on the height or length of the patients. The two functions are flexible enough to choose your own metadata. This could either be be company dependent, or the pre-defined ones based on WHO and CDC charts. You can also choose the desired parameters (e.g. "BMI", "HEIGHT", "WEIGHT", "HEAD CIRCUMFERENCE").
```

# Waiting for the release

As for all packages, an entire month will be used for package testing before the release.
More technical details about `{admiralpeds}` to come at that time, so __stay tuned__ 👀 ! 

> # What else ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What else?
```

> We also are excited to announce that some very early preparations have started on the next package extension joining our family - which will be a collaboration between Roche and Novo Nordisk (any maybe others) focused initially on endpoints in clinical trials for obesity. Name still to be decided - possibly {admiralmetabolic} - watch this space for more news!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also are excited to announce that some very early preparations have started on the next package extension joining our family - which will primarily be a collaboration between Roche and Novo Nordisk focused initially on endpoints in clinical trials for obesity. The package name is still to be decided, with the frontrunner being {admiralmetabolic}. Watch this space for more news!
```

---
title: "New {admiral} extension packages: {admiralpeds} & more coming soon!"
author:
  - name: Fanny Gautier
  - name: Lina Patil

> description: "We are very excited to announce that new extension packages are expected very soon: {admiralpeds} which is a pediatrics extension, and another extension for obesity in clinical trials"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "We are very excited to announce that new extension packages are expected very soon in the {admiral} family: {admiralpeds}, a pediatrics extension, and another extension (name TBC) for obesity in clinical trials"
```

date: "2024-05-10"
# please do not use any non-default categories.
# You can find the default categories in the repository README.md
categories: [Metadata, ADaM, Community]
# feel free to change the image
image: "coming_soon.png"
---

<!--------------- typical setup ----------------->

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
long_slug <- "2024-05-10_new_admiral_ex..."
# renv::use(lockfile = "renv.lock")
```

<!--------------- post begins here ----------------->

[![](admiralpeds.png){fig-align="center" width="220"}](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html)

> 📢 We are not just adopting new tools but fostering a culture of collaboration, innovation and a commitment to continuous learning. We are thus thrilled to update you on the latest developments from our admiral family team: [`admiralpeds 0.1`](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html) is __coming soon__ [on CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org) !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📢 In the pharmaverse, we are not just adopting new tools but fostering a culture of collaboration, innovation and a commitment to continuous learning. We are thus thrilled to update you on the latest developments from our {admiral} family team: [`{admiralpeds} 0.1`](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html) is __coming soon__ [on CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org)!
```

> `{admiralpeds}` is a pediatrics extension package for ADaM in R Asset Library `{admiral}`. Its first release is planned by July 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`{admiralpeds}` is a pediatrics extension package for  `{admiral}`. Its first release is planned by July 2024.
```

# Collaboration

7 companies (Roche, Pfizer, Amgen, BMS, J&J, Novartis, and Cytel) and David Freedman, a passionate consultant retired from CDC, are working together to create this extension 🤝.

# Purpose

> The purpose of this new extension is to provide a complementary (to `{admiral}`) toolbox that enables users to develop specifics ADaMs datasets for pediatric clinical trials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this new extension is to provide a complementary (to `{admiral}`) toolbox that enables users to develop specific ADaMs datasets for pediatric clinical trials.
```

Initially the package will focus on child growth/development charts: [WHO and CDC growth charts](https://www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/who_charts.htm), among infants and children ages birth to 19 years included. 

> # New Features

Reviewer: @Fanny-Gautier @Lina2689 Can you also mention anything else the package provides? Templates, test data, website vignettes etc. Thanks.

We are starting with 2 new functions : 

> * `admiral::derive_params_growth_age()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `admiralpeds::derive_params_growth_age()`
```
My bad, i got this wrong yesterday!

> * `admiral::derive_params_growth_height()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `admiralpeds::derive_params_growth_height()`
```
My bad again!

date: "2024-05-10"
# please do not use any non-default categories.
# You can find the default categories in the repository README.md
categories: [Metadata, ADaM, Community]
# feel free to change the image
image: "coming_soon.png"
---

<!--------------- typical setup ----------------->

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
long_slug <- "2024-05-10_new_admiral_ex..."
# renv::use(lockfile = "renv.lock")
```

<!--------------- post begins here ----------------->

[![](admiralpeds.png){fig-align="center" width="220"}](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html)

📢 In the pharmaverse, we are not just adopting new tools, but also fostering a culture of collaboration, innovation and a commitment to continuous learning. We are thus thrilled to update you on the latest developments from our {admiral} family team: [`{admiralpeds} 0.1`](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html) is __coming soon__ [on CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org)!

`{admiralpeds}` is a pediatrics extension package for  `{admiral}`. Its first release is planned by July 2024.

# Collaboration

> 7 companies (Roche, Pfizer, Amgen, BMS, J&J, Novartis, and Cytel) and David Freedman, a passionate consultant retired from CDC, are working together to create this extension 🤝.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4 companies (Roche, Pfizer, GSK, and Cytel), a variety of other community contributors, and David Freedman, a passionate consultant retired from CDC, are working together to create this extension 🤝.
```

Reviewer 3: @rossfarrugia GSK was asked to remove from the list by @bms63 in one of the earlier comments. Could you please confirm to add it back? And, is there any reason the remove Amgen, BMS, J&J and Novartis?

Reviewer 2: thanks Lina! good point on GSK - i'll also update that here https://github.com/pharmaverse/admiralpeds/pull/22. None of Amgen, BMS, J&J and Novartis co-develop admiralpeds with us. they all support other package extensions.

# Purpose

The purpose of this new extension is to provide a complementary (to `{admiral}`) toolbox that enables users to develop specific ADaMs datasets for pediatric clinical trials.

> Initially the package will focus on child growth/development charts: [WHO and CDC growth charts](https://www.cdc.gov/growthcharts/who_charts.htm), among infants and children ages birth to 19 years included. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initially the package will focus on anthropometric indicators via child growth/development charts: from WHO and CDC standards. 
```

> For guidance and a smooth use of this new extension and as for the main [`{admiral}`](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiral/index.html) package, ADaMs datasets templates, test data, [website](https://pharmaverse.github.io/admiralpeds/index.html) and vignettes gonna be available at the release time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For guidance and a smooth use of this new extension, ADaM dataset templates, test data, a website and vignettes will all be available at the release time.
```

# New Features

> We are starting with 2 new functions: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are starting with 2 new functions to derive Z-scores (SDS) and percentiles: 
```

* `admiralpeds::derive_params_growth_age()`
* `admiralpeds::derive_params_growth_height()`

> The first function, `derive_params_growth_age()` is based on the current age of the patients, while the second one, `derive_params_growth_height()` depends on the height or length of the patients. The two functions are flexible enough to choose your own metadata. This could either be company dependent, or the pre-defined ones based on WHO and CDC charts, as created in our ADaM template: *bmi_for_age, height_for_age, weight_for_age, who_hc_for_age, who_wt_for_ht_lgth*. You can also choose the desired parameters (e.g. "BMI", "HEIGHT", "WEIGHT", "HEAD CIRCUMFERENCE").

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first function, `derive_params_growth_age()` is based on the current age of the patients, while the second one, `derive_params_growth_height()` depends on the height or body length of the patients. The two functions are flexible enough to choose your own metadata. This could either be company dependent, or the pre-defined ones based on WHO and CDC charts, as created in our `ADVS` ADaM template. You can also choose the desired parameters (e.g. "BMI", "HEIGHT", "WEIGHT", "HEAD CIRCUMFERENCE").
```

Author: Edoardo asked to add something about the metadata. Could you please confirm to finally drop it again ?
Thanks.

Author: Hi @manciniedoardo, 
Could you please confirm this is fine to add that details in the vignette only ?

# Waiting for the release

> As for all packages, an entire month will be used for package testing before the release.

Reviewer 2: Maybe offer that if they'd like to be involved in testing to reach out to you via pharmaverse slack, as more the merrier to help us test this pre-release?

Author: Via _pharmaverse-pkgs_ channel or via _general-chat_ channel ? thanks

Reviewer 2: I was thinking maybe add something like `If you'd like to be involved in this testing phase during June 2024 then please reach out to either of the authors via the pharmaverse Slack workspace.`. Then you and Lina could collate any contacts you hear for us and once ready we can send out to all to review in one go

Reviewer 2: It makes it maybe a bit more personal and less daunting than them posting in a slack channel with >1000 people

More technical details about `{admiralpeds}` to come at that time, so __stay tuned__ 👀 and subscribe to our [newsletter](tinyurl.com/28gp2ek3) !

# What else?

> We also are excited to announce that some very early preparations have started on the next package extension joining our family - which will primarily be a collaboration between Roche and Novo Nordisk focused initially on endpoints in clinical trials for obesity. The package name is still to be decided, with the front runner being {admiralmetabolic}. Watch this space for more news!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also are excited to announce that some very early preparations have started on the next package extension joining our family - which will primarily be a collaboration between Roche and Novo Nordisk focused initially on endpoints in clinical trials for obesity. The package name is still to be decided, with the front runner being `{admiralmetabolic}`. Watch this space for more news!
```
